### Difference between Master Data Management and Enterprise Data Management
<ins>Master Data Management</ins>
Master data management is similar to enterprise data management, but it involves creating a single view of your data in a master file or master record. <ins>This master file will define the essentials you need for a given process.</ins> Think of this like a requirements document that details the necessary fields and inputs to your data source. For example, what does your sales department need to store its leads and opportunities? To start, it will probably need names, phone numbers, and email addresses. These fields will likely be piped in from another tool and we’ll need to know the relevant details. This master file will list every requisite dimension in a dataset in a standardized format. A more complicated example of master data management would be creating a master file with complex categories or dimensions, e.g., vendors in your supply chain, their location, and reference data. It all depends on what business data you use in the process you want to manage. Deciding between a master data file or another enterprise data management strategy is an important step in the project.
Source : [Tableau](https://www.tableau.com/learn/articles/enterprise-data-management)

<ins>Enterprise Data Management</ins>
Enterprise data management (EDM) is the process of inventorying and governing your business’s data and getting your organization onboard with the process. In other words, EDM is as much about managing people as it is about managing data. Data management means making sure your people have the accurate and timely data they need, and that they follow your standards for storing quality data in a standardized, secure, and governed place. In this quick guide, we’ll answer commonly asked questions about enterprise data management and point you to some resources so you can learn more.
Source : [Tableau](https://www.tableau.com/learn/articles/enterprise-data-management)
